Today I'm going to teach you about agent
profiles in Warp. Agent profiles let you
configure how your coding agents behave
in different situations. So in this
video I'm going to show you how two
different agent profiles will handle the
exact same coding project, which is
going to be building an NFL predictor
app. The idea is simple. Scrape NFL data
from the past 10 years, process that
into structured stats like scores,
teams, and players, and then use that
data to predict future wins for the
upcoming season. The prompt included
instructions on the data sources, tech
constraints, dependencies, the exact CLI
commands, implementation details, and
final deliverables. First up is the
strategic agent. For the base model, I
used GPT5 because it provides strong
reasoning while being still efficient at
generating code. For the planning model,
I chose Cloud 4 Opus because Opus is
great at breaking down complex projects
into long, detailed step-by-step plans.
The strategic agent is set so that
applying code diffs and reading files
are agent decides. Creating plans is
always allow and executing commands is
always asked. When I run the NFL
predictor prompt with this agent, the
first thing it does is ask me clarifying
questions. Do you want me to scrape both
player stats and schedules or focus on
one first? Where should I store raw data
files in a local folder or in a
database? And it asks me to answer these
questions before the agent continues on.
Then the agent generates a 14-step plan.
is super thorough setting up project
structure, configuring dependencies,
adding type safety with Pyantic,
building ingestion modules, creating
validation layers, and more. Now, about
halfway through, it pauses and asks me
to configure URLs for NFL schedules.
Essentially, the agent is saying, "Where
do I go to download the game schedule?"
And it gave me three supported options.
It wanted me to set environment
variables so that that way it could
dynamically build links to build
schedule files for each season. I wasn't
really closely following what was going
on. So I picked option B, the CSV
version. But the URLs it generated kept
returning 404 errors because the actual
NFL verse repository had changed its
structure. So even though the plan was
solid, the execution stalled when it
couldn't fetch the scheduled data. Next,
I switched to the YOLO agent. The YOLO
agent is set so that applying code diffs
and reading files are always allow.
Creating plans is never, and executing
commands is always allow. As you can
see, the agent profile has far fewer
guard rails. It doesn't ask me for
permission and doesn't bother me with
long plans. Instead of 13 steps, it
created a shorter 10-step plan. It
skipped over things like detailed
validation modules, orchestrators, or
extensive test scaffolding. Instead, it
went straight for the essentials like
initializing the project, implementing a
CLI, ingesting the NFL verse player
data, building scoring calculations,
transforming the data, and more. And
importantly, instead of starting with
schedules, it went directly to player
stats, which have stable, reliable URLs.
Essentially, the YOLO agent decided not
to pull schedule data at all in its
first pass. Instead, it built the core
pipeline around weekly player level
stats, things like passing, rushing, and
receiving numbers because those end
points are consistent and don't change.
By avoiding schedules, it skipped the
part of the pipeline that was brittle
and causing 404 errors for the strategic
agent. The end result was that the
yellow agent produced a working data set
of player performance and even generated
a final summary table. So, here you can
see the trade-off clearly. The strategic
agent is methodical, transparent, and
configurable. It asks for input, builds
safety nets, and makes sure you know
what's happening, but it also requires
you to stay engaged. If you don't give
it the right environment variables or
valid data sources, it could stall. The
YOLO agent skips the extra steps and
charges ahead. This makes it great for
vibe coding projects where you just want
results fast. But then you do sacrifice
some structure, testing, and
checkpoints. And I do want to stress
something, which is the fact that the
strategic agent didn't finish doesn't
mean it was worse. It just meant it
wasn't the right tool for this specific
scenario. If I was working on a
production code base where correctness
and clarity mattered more than speed,
then I would absolutely prefer the
strategic agent. But either way, that is
a quick look at how different agent
profiles can change your experience in
warp. And I hope that this video was
helpful.